---
layout: post_teaching
title: Class Logistics
category: math6040/7260spring2023
---

Welcome to Math 6040/7260: *Linear Models*. Here is some essential information to get started with Math 6040/7260.

## Class webpage

Please bookmark and visit the course webpage frequently for the most updated information:
<https://tulane-math-7260-2023.github.io/>.

## Lecture format

With the COVID-19 pandemic going on, the lectures will be delivered in a hybrid mode.  Exams will be take-home to accommodate any future uncertainties.

I will deliver lectures at Gibson Hall 126 and Zoom <https://tulane.zoom.us/j/91380486474> on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays (Mon/Wed/Fri 9:00am-9:50am).  Friday classes will  consist a mixture of lectures (first 2/3 weeks) and practical lab sessions.  Lectures will include presentation slides and questions.

## Attendance

I do require attendance.  However, you could attend classes through any of the following format

1. In person (Monday / Wednesday / Friday)
2. Watching zoom recordings


## Grades

There will be one mid-term and one final exam.  There will be roughly 4 sets of homework problems.

All graduate students are required to deliver a 15-min talk (10 min presentation + 5 min questions) on one of the following topics (secure yours before others do).  You may suggest a topic outside of the pool too.  Undergraduate students are encouraged to participate too with bonus 5 points towards the final score.

|      | Math-6040 | Math-7260|
|:----:|:---------:|:--------:|
|Homework| 40% | 30%|
|Mid-term exam| 30%| 30% |
|Final exam| 30% | 30% |
|Presentation| 5% (bonus) | 10% |

### Topic pools

The topics are given by key words only.  Please practice your ability of "educated" searches with google.

- **Software** key words: stan, bugs & jags, hadoop, spark, tensorflow, Scikit-Learn, Blas & Lapack
- **Stastician** key words: Harold Hotelling, Joseph Leo Doob, Bradley Efron, Abraham Wald, William Cochran, Sheldon M. Ross, Emile Borel
- **Research** areas: Bayesian Statistics, Approximate Bayesian Computation, Sequential Monte Carlo method, Variational Bayes, Spatial statistics
- **Method** key words: Gradient descent algorithm, Fast Fourier transform algorithm, Expectation-maximization algorithm, Metropolis-Hastings algorithm, Markov-chain Monte Carlo, Hamiltonian Monte Carlo, Hidden Markov Models, Genome-wide Association Studies, 
- **Parallel computing**: OpenCL, Cuda, SIMD (SSE + AVX)
- **Other**: COPSS Presidents' Award,  International Prize in Statistics